= PigeBox

Free continuous recording solution

== Components

* Debian stable system
* read-only root fs
* dhcp network configuration
* zeroconf hostname (avahi)
* alsa continuous recording daemon (http://github.com/albanpeignier/alsabackup)
* http access (nginx)
* ssh access

== Network

The network configuration is retrieved by dhcp at boot. 
The zeroconf hostname +pigebox.local+ is published on the network.

The box is reachable via :

* ssh root@pigebox.local
* http://pigebox.local

The record files are available via :

* http://pigebox.local/pige/

== Storage

* disk storage
* 15 minutes recording files
* automatic cleaning of older files

The storage filesystem must have the label +pige+ and be writable for user +pige+. 
For example, to create your storage filesystem :

  $ ssh root@pigebox.local

  # fdisk /dev/sda
  ...
  # mke2fs -L pige -j /dev/sda1
  # mount /srv/pige
  # chown pige:audio /srv/pige

The alsa.backup daemon will detect automatically the new mount.

== Monitoring

=== Munin

A munin node is started at boot. 

Graphs are available on http://pigebox.local/munin/. These statistics are reset at each reboot.

For persistent statistics, use a external munin manager by adding a node for pigebox.local.

=== Log

alsa.backup daemon and cron log messages in syslog.

For the moment, it requires an ssh session :

  ssh root@pigebox.local tail -f /var/log/syslog

== Distribution

* iso image
* disk image

== Build

To create quickly a first image :

  rake setup pigebox:rebuild

The image can be backup and restored to save bootstrap time :

  rake pigebox:bootstrap pigebox:backup
  # Then as many times as you need :
  rake pigebox:restore pigebox:configure pigebox:dist:iso

To build an iso image :

  rake pigebox:dist:iso

To build an disk image :

  rake pigebox:dist:disk

You can configure the build with using a +config+ file :

  ImageBuilder.default_debian_mirror = "http://localhost:9999/debian"
  ImageBuilder.ssh_pubkey = ENV['HOME'] + "/.ssh/another_id_rsa.pub"

See +rake -T+ for tasks details :

  rake pigebox:backup     # Save the current image directory in tar archive
  rake pigebox:bootstrap  # Boostrap debian system in image directory
  rake pigebox:clean      # Clean image temporary directory
  rake pigebox:configure  # Configure the pigebox image
  rake pigebox:dist:iso   # Create an iso file from pigebox image
  rake pigebox:dist:disk  # Create a disk image
  rake pigebox:restore    # Restore the image directory with existing tar archive
  rake setup              # Install some of required tools to create pigebox image

== Boot

For the moment, an iso image is builded. You can test it with qemu.

Install qemu and its module:

  sudo apt-get install qemu kqemu-source
  sudo module-assistant a-i kqemu

Create an empty disk:

  qemu-img create -f qcow2 /var/tmp/pigebox/disk.img 3G

You will need to initialize the pige storage after first boot (see Storage section).

Create a tap0 network interface:

  sudo tunctl -u $USER -t tap0

Start qemu vm:

  ./script/boot cdrom  # to use iso distribution
  ./script/boot disk   # to use disk distribution

